Home
About breast cancer
Diagnosis
Healthcare Information
Questions to ask about your breast cancer
It's normal to have questions about your diagnosis and treatment. Below, we've put together some of the questions you may want to ask your doctor or breast care nurse, as well as a guide to preparing for appointments.
Speak to a nurse
If you have any concerns about breast cancer, or just want to talk, our specialist nurses are here for you
0808 800 6000
We are open weekdays 9am to 4pm.  Saturday 9am to 1pm
In this section
Open
1. Questions about your diagnosis
If you’ve been diagnosed with breast cancer, you may want to learn everything you can about your cancer, or you may want information a bit at a time.
Don’t be afraid to ask questions of your specialist, breast care nurse or anyone else in your treatment team.
It may take a while for them to gather all the details of your diagnosis while different tests and investigations are carried out.
You may get bits of information as you go along and sometimes this information can change.
What type of breast cancer do I have?
There are many different
types of breast cancer
.
How big is the cancer? Is there more than one area?
The
size
of your cancer may affect the type of operation you have, and whether you need other treatments as well.
How quickly is the cancer growing?
Breast cancers are given a
grade
according to how different the cancer cells are to normal breast cells and how quickly they are growing.
Are there cancer cells in the lymph or blood vessels?
Breasts contain blood vessels and other tiny tubes called lymph vessels. If breast cancer cells spread into these vessels, it’s called
lympho-vascular invasion
. This increases the chances of the breast cancer spreading to somewhere else in the body.
People with lympho-vascular invasion may be offered treatments such as
chemotherapy
or
radiotherapy
.
Has the cancer spread to the lymph nodes under the arm?
Breast cancer can be found when it’s only inside the breast or sometimes when it has spread from your breast to the glands under your arm. The glands under your arm are called lymph nodes.
Are hormones helping the cancer to grow?
Sometimes hormones in your body can help the cancer to grow. This is known as
oestrogen receptor positive
breast cancer.
Close
Glossary term
Chemotherapy
Treatment aimed at destroying cancer cells using anti-cancer drugs.
Close
Glossary term
Lympho-vascular invasion
When breast cancer cells invade (spread into) the lymph and blood vessels within the breast, and can be seen in these vessels under the microscope.
Close
Glossary term
Radiotherapy
The use of high energy x-rays to destroy cancer cells.
Healthcare Information
HER2
Some breast cancer cells have a higher-than-normal level of a protein called HER2 on their surface, which stimulates them to grow. This is k...
Is the cancer HER2-positive or HER2-negative?
Sometimes breast cancer cells have a higher-than-normal level of a protein called HER2 on their surface, which helps them to grow.
Will I have any more tests?
Your treatment team may do other tests on the cancer. They will explain what the tests are and why they would like you to have them.
2. Questions about your treatment
Questions you might want to ask about your treatment include:
Why is this the best treatment for me?
When will treatment start?
How long will my treatment take?
What are the possible side effects?
How will the treatment affect my everyday life?
Where will I need to go for treatment?
3. Preparing for your appointments
Healthcare Information
Coping with breast cancer emotionally
However you feel, this in-depth guide gives you advice and resources on how to cope emotionally with breast cancer.
Write your questions down
It may help to write a list of questions and things you want to discuss, including information about how you’re feeling physically and emotionally.
Take someone along
You may feel overwhelmed with a lot of new information. It can be useful to take someone with you to appointments who can listen and help you remember what was said. Some people ask if they can use their phone to record the information.
It can be helpful to talk to your supporter afterwards and discuss any decisions you have been asked to make about your care.
You may also find it useful to take notes during your appointment.
Say what you want to say
It helps healthcare professionals to care for you if they know what your concerns are and what information you would like. Don’t be afraid to say what’s on your mind.
Make sure you get the answers to your questions
Healthcare professionals know it’s important for your wellbeing to have your questions answered.
If you don’t feel you have had an answer to your question, ask again.
Sometimes it’s not possible to give a definite answer, but your treatment team should be able to explain why if this is the case.
If you have any questions you feel have not been answered, or would like to talk through any concerns, call our Helpline below.
Was this helpful?
Thank you for your feedback
Was this helpful?
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Please tell us what you liked about it.
Please tell us what you liked about it.
Answered my questions
Easy to understand
Right amount of information
Reassuring
We’re sorry you didn’t find this helpful.
Please tell us why.
We’re sorry you didn’t find this helpful.
Didn't answer my questions
Hard to understand
Too much information
Upsetting
If you have any more feedback, please let us know.
Please do not include personal details and be aware we cannot respond to comments.
Send feedback
Quality assurance
Last reviewed in March 2021. The next planned review begins in February 2023.
Get support
Call our free helpline
If you have any concerns about breast cancer, or just want to talk, our specialist nurses are here for you.
0808 800 6000
Lines open:
Monday to Friday - 9am to 4pm;
Saturday - 9am to 1pm
Explore ways to talk to our nurses
It can be difficult to talk to someone in person about breast cancer concerns. Explore other ways you can ask a question.
See options
Support service
Someone Like Me
You never have to face breast cancer alone. Find somebody who understands what you're going through with Someone Like Me.
Find out more
Support services
Becca - your free breast cancer support app
If you’re living with or beyond primary breast cancer, Becca is for you. Read trusted information and inspiring true stories.
Discover more
Share this page
Copy link